
<metadata>

{   
    "created":"05/01/2025",
    "categories":["Lessons","Math"]
}

</metadata>
<setup>

print=display
</setup>

# Linear Algebra

A small explanation of what we're doing here first.

This course is planned as a tool to make you get this essential concepts of Linear Algebra under your control. Other than that you will master your python [OOP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Object-oriented_programming) skills pretty well. 

For this lessons you will really need *some* python knowledge, however even if you're only starting learning python, you should also try it out, you can easily google it, if you see some stuff or syntax you're not familiar with.

In each lesson you will be asked to implement some classes or functions, that we **will use in the next lessons**.
Your implementation can be tested with *Run* button under your code.
# Vectors
Let's start with the basics! 

Most essential, or one of the most essential and important elements in Linear Algebra is a [vector](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Euclidean_vector).

Simply saying, a vector is basically a list of values with length of **N**.
To make this 'list' easier to use we give each element of a vector it's name(`x, y, z...`), as opposed to inexes in an array/list.

In programming we often like to call vector classes `VectorN`, like `Vector2` or `Vector3`.

# 

Your task today is to implement two classes `Vector2` and `Vector3`.
As it's the first lesson in the series, you only need to create class constructors where you create and set all values of a vector.


## Code

```python
# You must implement those two classes with constructors like this
class Vector2:
    def __init__(self,x,y):
        ...
    
class Vector3:
    def __init__(self,x,y,z):
        ...
    
# Then could be used as

a = Vector3(0,1,-1)
print(a.z) # -1
print(a.x) # 0
    
```



Done? Let's check it out. Press **Run!**

| Previous    | [Next](./problem.html?id=Linear_Algebra/1) |
| -------- | ------- |

# 




<check>
import random
random.seed(1)
passed=0
try:
    v2=Vector2(1,2)
    failed = False
    for i in range(10):
        x,y=random.randint(-100,100),random.randint(-100,100)
        v = Vector2(x,y)
        if(v.x!=x or v.y!=y):
            print(f"Miss: Given coordinates {x}, {y} received {v.x}, {v.y} from the vector.")
            failed=True
            break
    print("Vector2 " + ("failed!" if failed else "works!"))
    if(not failed):
        passed+=1
except:
    print("Vector2 not implemented!")



try:
    v3=Vector3(1,2,3)
    failed = False
    for i in range(10):
        x,y,z=random.randint(-100,100),random.randint(-100,100),random.randint(-100,100)
        v = Vector3(x,y,z)
        if(v.x!=x or v.y!=y or v.z!=z):
            print(f"Miss: Given coordinates {x}, {y}, {z} received {v.x}, {v.y}, {v.z} from the vector.")
            failed=True
            break
    print("Vector3 " + ("failed!" if failed else "works!"))
    if(not failed):
        passed+=1
except:
    print("Vector3 not implemented!")

if(passed==2):
    print("Nicely done, let's continue for the next one!")
    

</check>